how to Know YouTube as a B2B
[Music]
company welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
Dunning founder over at breaking B2B and
if you haven't yet why not join
thousands of Legends enjoying our
unusual weekday B2B emails for B2B
marketing experiments fresh podcast
updates SEO ideas tips and more head
over to Breaking B2B and hit that
newsletter tab at breaking bb.com so
join me today I've got Josh gon Josh is
the director at get your media limited
he's also host of the breaking beard
podcast welcome on sir how are we I'm
good thank you when you started talking
then I like breaking I'm like is he
going to call out my podcast there but
uh yeah I'm good man how you very close
names aren't they yeah dangerously close
but yeah doing well man looking forward
to this one a bit of a bit of an
unusual episode as we're going to be
nailing into a bunch of things around
YouTube and how B2B companies can
actually hit the nail on the head I
think it's it's so rare for me to
actually see a B2B company whether
they're service based whether they're
Technology based software based to
actually one that actually generates
good views on YouTube so most of the
time I go into their channels and it's
like they've dumped a webinar on there
and it's got like five views and it's
about a year old and two to actually
talk to marketers or Founders at these
companies that actually say they're
having success off YouTube I.E we're
generating leads or we're generating
demos or generating revenue on the back
end so I know you're doing this well for
your own channels for clients and for
even beard meets food which you might
dive into a bit as
well but first and foremost 2025 and
Beyond how viable is YouTube for a B2B
company where we are right now I think
it's very viable you know people still
people often think they've missed the
boat and it's like that saying it's like
when's the best time to plant a tree
like 20 years ago or like yesterday it's
like it's the same thing I think people
need to get on get on with it because a
lot of people pick sort one marketing
strategy and then sort of stick to it so
they might do paid ads they might do or
we'll update our website they'll post
regularly on LinkedIn and then like
YouTube often tends to be like an
afterthought where where it does just
become a Dumping Ground of content um
whereas it should be I think at the
Forefront of
well it's B2B or b2c marketing
strategies because that is where a lot
of people are hanging out now you know
longer form you know 16x9 content or the
short form you know vertical content um
I think every business should be
uploading regularly onto YouTube yeah
yeah yeah and is it still the case that
folks will sit around and watch a long
form video whether that's I don't know
10 20 minutes or or Beyond cuz it feels
almost like we're in the era of everyone
cuz I spend a lot of time on LinkedIn
right cuz I'm B2B in I serve B2B clients
and everyone's like you got to do short
form video it's got to be 30 seconds to
90 seconds it's got to be a quick hit
because everyone's lost their attention
span but is that just is that not the
case and many will still tune in for
that long I think it's like a it's like
a a conscious effort to tune into a
longer form piece of content when it's
like B2B related you know like which is
a weird thing so like if it's
entertainment based so like there's a
guy called Matt Armstrong on YouTube I'm
obsessed with him rebuilds crash damaged
cars and he puts videos out that like 50
minutes to an hour long and when they
drop I'm I'll drop everything like kids
a th bath I'm like wife you can finish
that off you know I mean I'll drop
anything to watch that for 50 minutes
but if it's like a business related
piece of content podcast YouTube video
you know like this there's people doing
like master classes for like three hours
long you that's a a time where you've
got to consciously set aside and go
right I need to sort of you know learn
learn from this whereas like I think
entertainment based stuff is a little
bit more like right I can just drop it
and go for it
so what do you think the difference is
then between kind of something that's
that's just mediocre and something that
actually has that effect like for
example that the channel that you like I
mean that's the time for you to sort of
switch off is it so if it's
entertainment based content or if
there's like a good story progression
you're you're consuming that as as a
consumer just enjoying it whereas like
if you tend to look at like any business
related content that's for you to try
and like upskill yourself or get like a
bit of an insight into if it's a
business you're going to work with
what's the inside scoop you know like
what's the salesp person nowadays like
they're just glorified order takers out
there because really most consumers are
going to do all their research before
they even speak to you and in the in
their lives where the content should be
made it's like how can you answer all
the questions of your ideal customer
online so that when they do speak to you
you basically just take in the order um
that's that's sort of my view on
it yeah yeah yeah makes
sense you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results prices or to book a call with
me so when it comes to we get into the
strategy in a bit we'll talk about if
we've got time we'll talk about kind of
laying it out from initial ideation
right through to kind of execution and
the videos that you should start
focusing on and how they can actually
contribute to building a sales pipeline
or generating leads but so you mentioned
YouTube's viable you mentioned many
folks are still chck sticking around if
it's educational if it's entertaining
to the long form side of things um does
that mean that any business can start a
YouTube channel from from now and they
can actually see see leads off it or
whatever that end goal is the end
conversion point on the back end whether
that's someone booking a cool on their
website or signing up to their software
or whatever they're looking to get out
out of a conversion I believe so I just
think people need to be really really
specific so like I think if you know
exactly who your ideal customer is and
what you're trying to gain from it if
you can create content that does just
speak to that one individual it's the
number of views then is irrelevant
because if you can just get a handful of
people that is that ideal customer
that's like bought into what you're
trying to sort of speak to them about on
YouTube then you'll see conversions
whether it's like you know signing up to
your newsletter or you know whatever
your call to action is you will get that
out of them I think a lot of people
people fall foul of just trying to go
viral on any platform so like you could
let's say one video pops off like it's
super random it's not actually it's not
related to what you're trying to say
sell it's pointless right you know you
get you your 15 minutes of fame but it
don't serve you in any capacity so I
think like people that have been really
successful at at sort of explaining that
do you know a guy called James Smith the
PT I don't he's not oh no actually he's
not the one that swear like anything is
he yeah yeah it were like classes like
the Gorden Ramsey of the fitness
industry yeah I do actually yeah the
blonde chat yeah so he came on our
podcast and he explained it quite well
but he has set up another YouTube
channel which is like James Smith
business and he explains like all this
in quite good like in heavy detail and
he admitted to himself like that he got
his YouTube channel to like 400,000
subscribers he got like 1.2 million
Instagram photos but it got a YouTube
channel to like 400,000 subscribers but
he admitted that it wasn't serving his
business because he was trying to be a
celebrity and not convert clients so he
basically started from scratch set up
James Smith business it's getting a
tenth of the views but he's made way
more money now he's collaborating with
the Simon squib and you know all all
these big time sort of business U
marketeers and he's like he's laying it
all out you know his strategy and like
if anybody that's looking into that I
would advise going and looking at his
content because he explains it really
well and the sort of differences and
basically trying to stop trying to be a
celebrity and make the content that's
going to serve you you
know what was he doing
before so he was just like he was trying
to
make marketing style content for his
like online fores and for his you know
he's like an online PT but he's got
multiple businesses but it was trying to
almost like gamify him into like that
that combination of like YouTube content
and you know like a little bit like
educational busy content and it just
didn't quite fit whereas like when you
went all in on the business obviously
you got 10% of the views but way better
way better audience way better
conversion onto his online courses and
things like that so you know that's a a
pretty good example of why and if and
this guy already had a massive following
so like if you just draw blogs that
started from scratch you know you're
going to struggle it's um it's such an
easy trap to fall into isn't it like I I
natur I've said it before I talk about
all the time but I spend an unhealthy
amount of time on LinkedIn but it's a
big driver of inbound booked calls for
our business at breaking B2B so I I'll
do Daily Posts in my case about B2B SEO
and SAS SEO and what not to do what to
do experiments case studies and all that
good stuff but it is easy to look at
folks that are just posting super
generic stuff around leaders ship and I
don't know healthy healthy ways to be an
entrepreneur and stuff like that and
thinking whoa they're getting like
10,000 likes and comments on their posts
but it's like is that actually going to
drive business like I know on my posts
average I don't know 10 to 30 likes and
a couple comments but we do actually get
book calls off the back of it whereas
sometimes is easy to fall into that trap
with thinking oh maybe I should just
post more generic stuff because more
people will engage with the post yeah
and
yeah they likely will but then like will
it drive more business you know like
everyone's had the odd post that does
well on LinkedIn but how many of them
actually drive sales you know you look
at like you you know Mike win it don't
you yeah yeah yeah so like I've known
Mike for years and he is like an expert
at sort of like creating that content
that does Drive engagement but also is
like such a direct seller Mike's just a
Salesman is like you know even though
he's like expertis is in marketing he's
he's pretty much a direct salesman is he
on there like he'll say exactly what he
wants when he wants it and this is how
much it cost to get in and he'll provoke
conversation around his you know his
Niche um but a ain't just posting the
you know the I I got engaged this
weekend and here's what I've learned
from it like that you know linked in one
of those things that went like extreme
last year didn't it I saw like there
some like LinkedIn influences you know
like middle-aged dads having boxing
matches and I'm like what is going on on
this PL you know you've got your Logan
Paul's and Jake Paul's fighting Mike
Tyson and then you've got like Dave the
property investor fighting Jeff the
[__] other property investor from
down south trying to sell tickets on
LinkedIn I'm like this is we've got
enough of this now like yeah yeah yeah
Mike Mike Winn's actually been on this
show like back in the day once or twice
and he was I learned a lot when he came
on the show actually because he was one
of the first people to tell me because
he he sold a business didn't he a long
time ago but to make this tangible and
useful for the audience he basically was
the one who explained to me that if
you're trying to kind scale of business
and you're frustrated that you're not
getting clients that value your service
or can easily afford your offer you
basically say like find a money Niche
like find an idle client that has the
expensive problem you solve is motivated
to solve it but most importantly they're
the size of the business where they
don't actually care about the amount of
cash that it costs to fix that problem
yeah so it's not like yeah they might
have the problem but you're speaking to
someone that never ever be able to
afford the offer so when you're building
out the idal client Market find out
there's there they've got the problem
they're motivated to solve it they got
the cash to to invest in it and also
there's a decent total addressable
market so there's enough of these
potential prospects that you could
actually tap into them
and at the end of the day get enough get
enough prospects get enough customers
yeah and actually say no to the clients
that don't fit you know like that's it
he he uh he's been on AR podcast a
couple of times and it's that is a a bit
of a weird crossover because we are like
the you know mine with beard is like a
you know like an entertain sort of based
podcast but we had him on cuz you know
he's a a friend of ours and he's he so
knowledgeable that there are there will
people in the audience that did enjoy a
lot of people enjoyed it but he said
like you know Google came to him with
like a an offer to make an explainer
video and it were worth a lot of money
at the time but it didn't fit you know
the goal of the business when they're
trying to sell it so they said no so to
turn down business that's the wrong
business is also quite a a good thing to
look at oh definitely definitely it's
it's it's good in general is let's show
transparency and avoid paying let it
down the road for poor fit clients and
we've we've all been there if you're a
Founder you've probably experienced it
at least I have many times so you
sometimes got to learn that the hard way
yeah but that is what it is
so let's let's talk about a few common
mistakes and then let's dive into the
actionable strategy when it comes to
YouTube for B2B so what what are some
kind of common mistakes you see all the
time when folks start fire up a channel
and like those main no
no I think it I think being like super
beige so like the barrier to entry now
is
so so high and so low in some ways you
know you can make you could make the
most like low quality lowf content but
the actual physical spoken content in
there is so high that you've got you're
now competing on both ends so you've got
like low end production but High you
know well put together content it's like
a Lo loom video that's explaining a full
sales process you are then trying to
compete with somebody that's delivering
this like valuable information for free
then you've got the highend like well
produced polished content and again
they're giving all of the the keys to
the kingdom away so where do you fit in
within that mess there you know you've
got to you cannot be the beige content
creator you know and I sound a bit like
this now because I'm like I'm trying to
sort I really need to sort specify but
when I were I went and did a talk
recently um at [__] and every all of the
speakers went up on stage and we're in
front of 450 small business owners you
know you you want to give them as much
actionable information so they because
they're selfishly just want as much
information as possible to take away and
make their businesses better but like
most of most of if not all the keynote
speakers went up there and said how good
they were at everything but gave no real
information away for to help these
people in front of them so if you're
doing the same with your content and you
just sort of playing buzzword bingo just
waffling on about nonsense no one's
going to engage with it or take any any
value from it so what I would say is
like look at those that are at the top
of the game giving away the keys to the
kingdom if you can give away as much
quality information away for free your
ideal customers will will pay you to to
implement it within their business and
that's what I found as well you know
when you were talking about Mike before
the two books that stand out for me
since day one have been um Daniel
priestley's keepers of influence and
over
subscribed because one like if you can
become influential within your Niche and
you can sort of become that Keepers some
influence and then over subscribed if
more people want to buy from you than
you can sell to you can then set
yourself apart um and then that
obviously niching down into really
specific markets um there was lot of
things that really helped me progress in
business oh yeah I I've been on those
kind of things so many times like been
invited to webinars or talks or stuff
like that and you'll always get one or
two people that just waffle on about how
great they are and how many awards
they've won and all this cool stuff and
all the clients it's like just put
yourself in the potential client shoes
for a second like why do they care at
all about all this stuff like you need
to like you said YouTube or regardless
of whatever the talking point is you
need to coni quickly show someone that
you can understand their world share
some actionable tips and some processes
and all that kind of stuff then they'll
come to you because they trust you yeah
and like when you're making content for
your
business spend all of your time in the
pre like spend the majority of your time
should be in pre-production so write the
script and write the the the bullet
points whatever you need to be break
them down so that when you are
delivering that piece to camera for your
YouTube channel make sure that you've
got actionable step steps to take away
throughout all that and then gamify it
if you can gamify the content CU like
YouTube's won and lost on the audience
retention so going from step one to step
two to step three you're sort of like
leading someone down a path so if you
can if you can almost take it into a
story so like set up conflict resolution
that's all the big channels do whether
it's beard meets food's Channel set up
I'm going to turn up at this restaurant
today and they've got this you know 15
pound burger can I beat it the conflict
is going to start eating the burger can
he do it can't he do it there's the
characters get brought in but ultimately
you everyone stays to the end for the
resolution does he finish it or not you
know the guy that builds the cars is
exactly the same how can you take that
there's a guy uh called Ed Lawrence on
YouTube and he runs a channel called
film booth and again he does a lot of
actionable tips and tricks on writing
content which would work B2B B Toc how
can you sort of gamify your content so
that you can keep the audience retained
and then link it onto another video so
like if you were talking about SEO let's
say you've nailed your SEO but then you
need to go into email marketing if if
you can deliver a 5 six7 minute piece
that follows that gamified way and then
you can say right you've nailed your SEO
now let's look at email marketing I
think you should watch this video next
and it lcks straight onto an email
marketing video and they'll watch that
they're going to stay on your channel
and just consume video after video then
the algorithm likes your channel because
you've got good Channel retention and
they're going to push that to a wider
audience so like
that's another way rather than just
going right let's make a video that's 25
minutes long and give everything away
you know you could make four8 minute
videos and Link them from like one thing
to another to another to another you've
got like a series that's sort of
intertwined that's the one of the most
cleverest retention hacks that I've seen
last year from sort of the B2B channels
nice nice setup conflict resolution like
that
framework so let's let's go a bit let's
go into a bit of a step by step so for
anyone that's maybe struggling at the
moment you've given some tips away
already but anyone that's thinking I
want to get into YouTube and finally
crack it this year or I want to kind of
put my channel back into action because
it feels like we've been sleeping on it
a little bit and feel free to use me as
an example I mean all we already post
about is b2bs your own website so feel
feel free to use a client example or
anything you think can be useful for
examples of folks tun in but where is
what's the first starting point if we're
setting up a YouTube channel what should
we do perhaps before we even script
stuff out or plan out videos I think
obviously like like if when you look
like the aesthetic of your like LinkedIn
profile or anything like that your
YouTube channel needs to sort of mirror
that don't it people need to know
exactly what they're going to get when
they land on that
channel same for the bi the like the
information Bio Section and then after
that it would literally be a case of
doing the market research like who's
dominating in the niche that you're
already in look at the videos that
they've done and start writing out
titles so like pre-production is
everything you know with with with all
this if you can write out a bunch of
titles that are relevant to your Niche
then you start writing out like the
bullet points to start breaking those
like if it were about SEO for example
break that that video down to three or
four sections and then how can like
literally again once you started writing
it rather than just banging into chat
GPT start writing it thinking like where
does this fit then how can I gamify this
V these videos so if you can get a list
of videos together that you wanted to
produce then I would then go right
dedicate a time to production if I I
mean most B2B companies it really
depends but I would suggest looking at
Outsourcing as fast as possible because
that isn't your area of expertise so if
you can Outsource to someone or you know
an agency that has you know expertise in
it just Outsource it because like you
won't see me trying to do my own SEO or
setup assass you know what I mean like
that I'm going to that's not what I'm
going to be doing so like if you got if
you've not got the budget really take
the time in pre-production and if you
have got the budget just Outsource it
yeah yeah yeah so understand understand
understand who the ideal client
is understand I suppose what you're
trying to get out of the the content in
most case from a B2B exam from a B2B
perspective is going to be to drive some
kind of business impact like you say
whether that is signing up to a
newsletter taking a trial of your
software booking a cool of yourself team
whatever it may be when it comes to like
planning out planning out those initial
videos should we do it from more of a an
SEO lens I.E what would a perspective
client maybe be searching for on YouTube
when they may have in a a relative level
of sales intent around our
offer or should it be should it be done
from a different angle or what what's
usually your advice there I mean that's
not like I guess you've got to look at
how YouTube is broken down now when you
look if you if you search something in
Google which could be like a paino for
example that will take you directly to a
video where that exact question is being
answered so whether somebody has
physically chapped to Market it from
like an seo seo standpoint or we've
answered it it's been then transcribed
so that Google itself has found that and
gone I think this answers your question
so that's probably like a good way to do
it um more so than you
know yeah I would say that's probably
the best way to do it if you can answer
the like the pain point of a potential
customer it will you will be taken
directly to you when when somebody's
searching that yeah yeah yeah and I I'll
give you an example where I struggle is
so I'm I'm constantly trying to
basically be at the top so if someone
searches things like B2B SEO SAS SEO SAS
marketing strategies I want to I want to
be top we've got one or two videos that
do okay but most of the time they'll
show up there for maybe a couple days
and then just crash down there maybe at
best get a few hundred views and then
that's it then you'll have whoever's
whoever's pumping out loads of videos in
the space doing quite well probably got
a better framework maybe they're doing
the setup conflict resolution framework
a bit better than myself maybe the
production's a bit more polished maybe
they're doing a few other angles as well
and maybe they are doing short form so
most of the time we we just we just fail
but yeah I think you can find that like
when you've got like a competitive Niche
like that like when I first started
making uh YouTube videos I was making I
was teaching people how to do video so
then you fall into the niche of like
gear so then you're doing like you're
almost doing like searchable content
about gear like what what can I make the
title B it's like SEO friendly so it
becomes the top like if the latest
camera or latest things come out you
fall into the Trap of like just it's
almost like lazy content creation is it
it's like you you want to it's like a
cheat sheet I'll make it I'll make the
title SEO friendly all like it will work
for a certain amount of time but
ultimately you'll burn out that you'll
exhaust that audience really quick and
the next person is going to jump the
queue whereas like if you if you sort of
refrain from putting out content on a
like a weekly basis and went to like
monthly but made one bang of video video
like if you're getting 100 200 views a
video and you're putting out four videos
a month that's 800 views in it over the
month whereas like if you put a lot of
time effort into one video per month but
it got thousands of views from your
ideal customer it's actually better to
spend more time in the pre-production
planning even like researching better
titles uh split testing thumbnails like
that's the that is the level that all of
these big time YouTubers are at now that
they're constantly testing and adapting
to become relevant for longer on the on
the YouTube you know um home home screen
so I would probably say that's like
worth doing now is like a little bit
more more time in pre-production and
more time in planning to see if it can
have have longer legs yeah you do often
just like fall into an upload schedule
trapped out you oh yeah it's easily done
I mean it's easily done for example we
do a weekly episode whether that's a a
guest episode or a solo episode you're
exactly right there are sometimes where
you think oh we've got to get something
out cuz that's part the routine yeah so
it is it is easy to do is is there any
way I mean you've given us some ideas in
terms of the pre-production work that
you can put into play the research that
you can do following that framework is
there any other any other things that
companies can do if they are going to
perhaps let's say take more time on each
video to I guess not guarantee success
but be more likely to get that consumed
by their ideal
clients I I think
what one thing you're always going to
find with in most businesses is the the
basically they'll ask the marketing guy
to do a job and they'll do like the
lowest barer to entry effort at making a
YouTube video I'm making but it could
take like days of research before you
even come up with like what is the title
of this like that fits what your ideal
customer want not to mention the days
and days thereafter of researching like
what content should be put into it and
then how should that be delivered then
how much money should we spend in
delivering that that that message
because you could animate certain
sections to keep retention up you know
you could get interviews from various
different people and splice it into a
piece of content so you the cost of
producing the cost of production can be
so high but if you've got a like a like
a software as a service business that
you wanted people to sign up to yeah you
know that it's worth the investment into
a longer production if people it's going
to be more actionable people to say
right yeah I'll click a link and I'll
I'll start a free trial or whatever um
so that's what I would say I think just
like there's no you're talking about
taking into consideration like what your
average customer value is yeah and then
is it actually does it warrant the time
to put together something that is this
high quality or should we maybe do a bit
less time and probably go for more of a
volume I would say no I would say
whatever's most feasible put as much POS
much time as possible in the
pre-production into pre-production and
production you know rather than just
like putting the lowest like because
these Talking Heads Are Dead easy right
but like if you'd let's say we do an
hour's worth of content now you could
easily just make a an8 minute like
highlight of Whatever Gets said and that
would be a better piece of content on
your YouTube channel than me waffling on
for 45 minutes do you know what I mean
as brutal as that is like that's that is
the reality of it because you could
narrate that you know you could you
could narrate the stories tea up stories
tea up like examples the ones that are a
bit [__] you know get rid of them like
then you're going to have a better piece
of content it's going to add more value
to the audience they can consume it in a
quicker amount of time and but it just
for you it means you've got to rewatch
the content you got to find the
highlights you've got to go right how
can I narrate this so it fits my for my
ideal customer and they can make it
actionable but it would be a better
piece of content at the end of it rather
than just 45 minute podcast on it it's a
fair point it is a fair point and is
that it does feel like if I'm look if
I'm browsing YouTube from any series
whether it's around marketing whether
it's around some else where I'm watching
beard Meats food whatever it might be is
is there like a sweet spot for timelines
it feels like a lot of videos that I see
like 8 to 15 minutes roughly and then
you get the odd one but it's a huge
channel that has like a 2hour master
class and they just completely ignore
all the YouTube best practices and just
put like a massive valuable video I
think it I think like realistically like
as fast as humanly possible right if you
if you get all the information out as
fast as possible without any waffling
intro or outro just get in get into the
thick of it and get out again that's
going to be the best piece of content
you know pre people previously used to
like try and like drag them out to
minutes could put mid roll ads on you
know and then because that's that's the
barrier to put mid roll in but then
often people don't think about oh well
if I put a mid rolling that's going to
ruin the customer like viewing
experience so they might just [__]
bail out half at the halfway point or at
two minutes whatever you put it in
so it's all like people all these
YouTube experts are like you're right
you need to get your videos to 8 minutes
so that you can get a mid roll in and
it's like yeah but you're only doing a
th views so like you're only earning 50
P anyway whereas you could have earned
hundreds or thousands off of One
customer and and just not even turned
monetization on you
know I would just say get in get as as
much valuable information passed on to
the consumer as possible and get out of
there you know like as quick as
possible basically time time to Value as
quick as someone can tune in start
getting actionable stuff especially in
the business world I mean like who's got
time no one's got time do you know the T
to be scrolling through Tik to at
dancing cats then watching us waffle on
for 45 minutes if they could have got it
in 15 you know
yeah yeah yeah it's a fair point what
what are your thoughts around call to
action so we've talked about the
conversion point that most companies are
going to want prospects to take some
kind of action but should you even if
you're planning out your content maybe
you've built a list of initial videos
that you want to craft out and you've
you're going to spend some time on
production you're going to make them as
as quick as possible but at the same
time get that value across and make sure
they're in depth enough as they need to
be
but should I don't know whether it's a
guest series or whether it's a a hosted
series whatever the format is should
should there be ctas in there or do you
even need a CTA because then someone's
going to check out your website if
they're ready anyway or what your
thoughts around that I think it was like
a valuable call to action so like again
like I'll use James Smith as an example
you know he he if his lead magnet is you
know check out what your calorie intake
should you know if he's talking about
Fitness stuff do not know what your
maintenance calories are you know check
out my uh maintenance calorie calculator
player where you're going to gather all
the information but you're going to give
them Something Free back so then they're
in your your funnel at that point out
there so obviously depends on business
to business but yeah I think you should
be allowed to give a call to action if
if there is value within it because
somebody will take you up on that offer
just depend if it's if it's a bit
wishy-washy or like you know follow me
on Instagram or like then know but if
you can offer something all Val again
you put all that consideration into the
content speaking to the ideal customer
they're getting bags of value from it
and then you at the end of it you've got
right I've got this for you you know
they're going to go I'll check that out
if it's a free checklist whatever it is
if it is actually of value then they're
going to they're going to they're going
to go to your funnel out
there is there anything else that
companies should consider if they really
want to make sure these these videos are
actually going to drive business on the
back end that we've perhaps not not ched
about just constantly try and adapt and
evolve it I think you know you said
before about just sort of like it's a
checklist like let's get one video out a
week regardless it just becomes like
monotonous and you know it can often
become monotonous within any sort of
organization C it and whoever's in
charge of that within a business I'll
just go right take I've done the video
this week but it might be na you know
like I think just constantly going right
how can you adapt and improve and that's
why it's like a Beyond a full-time job
running a YouTube channel is it you know
like for one individual you need to be
like on it at all times like looking at
what what are other channels doing what
are the thumbnails like what what's the
what the typ that are working what's not
working you know and then looking at
like the the big
fish who are they interviewing why are
they interviewing them how much value
how much money they put in production
and planning and going like how can we
even get close to that you know I think
that's why I say just constantly trying
to adapt it and just build on it I think
so many of these tips are useful because
I I feel that in B2B the bar to entry is
is low like and I'm guilty of this as
well like channels most of the time they
just get dumped with the latest webinar
or a guest podcast something super Sim
simple or product video or maybe it is a
a solo episode on a a how-to tactic or a
strategy or an industry Trend or example
whatever it may be but it's it's a bit
vague the production value is probably
quite poor and maybe there's tons of
cool to action so it's a bit too saly so
I feel like there is definitely in the
B2B Arena like not that there's not that
high barrier to entry so I think if you
nail nail these points then you can
probably get ahead of most if you
actually take the time and like you say
Don't just P off to a marketing exec
that might have 50 other jobs to do for
the week and they're just kind of
ticking a BX by getting a video on
YouTube yeah like if I were if I were
like a doing a business podcast or
business content now I'd be like getting
experts from all walks of life in and I
would be like I'll be taking this 45
minute recording and like getting it
down to 10 minutes max you know I'd be
going right what were good stuff that it
said what were bad stuff that it said
right ditch the bad stuff where's the
good stuff right how can I make what
he's said that is a little bit beige and
a little bit vague relatable to my ideal
customer so that what I'm saying is
actionable because you'll know you
understand what I'm saying but you could
Niche that down for your ideal customer
so like that's what I would be doing i'
be going right if I can pick somebody in
every Niche and I can really Whittle
this down to a like a powerful piece of
content I'm the I'll be the one that's
sort of given the expertise alongside
the experts I've brought into the
channel to help sort of lead it along so
you'll add your two sense into
everything that I've said and it will be
a powerful piece of piece of work rather
than just you know a podcast maybe we
should do that as an experiment one day
we put a long form version and then you
put a refin 10-minute version we see
what happens and plugy yeah it I think
I'll get me edited on it about right
let's go sounds good sounds good cool
man look appreciate appreciate the
rundown I think there's been a lot of
useful useful tips um is there anything
that oh yeah one thing I do want to know
before we wrap things up like thumbnail
images again I think B2B companies again
do super boring ones usually it's just a
snapshot of whatever they've chucked on
their webinar or just a generic podcast
snapshot where they've just changed the
photo of the guest or they've put a logo
on there or something super basic any
tips for thumbnails that I guess one
stand out and get good click-throughs
but are also going to be relevant to to
the topic at hand I think it's dependent
from um obviously like industry to
industry or like whatever but I think a
lot of people repeat themselves so like
they'll say the title will say one thing
and then they'll repeat that in the
written text on a
thumbnail um so often like repeating
yourself is like the worst thing to do
you know like if you're talking about
SEO and it's like written in the
thumbnail and then you've got it again
in the title youve just wasted wasted
real estate there so like pick one for
one and not for the other um but split
test like it's available to everyone now
on YouTube so you can split test I
believe three to four Images um so
spting the time to picking you can't
split test the title so pick you pick a
compelling title that's going to tr what
you believe is going to hook somebody in
but then get four different thumbnails
lined up edited composed and split test
it and let the data do the talking for
you don't just be lazy and bang one
thumbnail right it's done and there's a
common theme now like how much work
there is involved in each step of the
process to then do the production side
of each step of the process it just
becomes a bigger job than a lot of
people I think a lot of people
previously thought it was but if you
want to succeed that's how much the the
big guys are doing it even more that
they're like split testing everything um
you yeah yeah yeah makes sense is is
YouTube very forgiving in the sense that
let's pretend and you're never going to
really know until you put the video out
to Market but you had got a video but
perhaps the thumb perhaps the title
wasn't quite right I.E folks would never
search for this if you did put it out is
there much room for forgiveness if you
do rename the title and then I mean back
in or yeah you go on to um that business
uh that Ed Lawrence film booth business
film Booth I think his uh his channel is
called he has gone back onto his channel
previously changed the title and the
thumbnail and he's showing you the
analytics where it's just gone like
stale to just like a pocket you know so
like you could go back through even
through old content because you can go
in YouTube editor and there'll be like
pieces of content where everyone's on it
you have waffled on for 10 minutes like
of an intro and then the content starts
at like I don't know four minutes you
can go in and just cut all that out and
just like right starts where the the
content starts where the valuable
information starts go in trim the front
trim the back you know and you've got a
brand new piece of content that could
then perform so I think if you do
believe you've got valuable stuff on
your Channel
go in change a thumbnail change a title
trim it where you can and again they
they're primed to pop off again Nice
Like It Cool cheers Josh appreciate the
breakdown it's been useful I'm sure it's
been useful for everyone tuning into
with that please do tell us more about
how anyone can learn more about your
business connect with you and anything
you'd like to share yeah uh I mean you
can find me on LinkedIn Josh Gooden uh
Instagram the Josh Gooden and then my uh
business is get your media so have a
look for that and uh man it's been it's
been good I've wanting to do more of
these podcasts this year so you're the
first one first one of the
Year good man good man we'll put all
those links Below in the description and
once again thanks Josh really enjoyed
the chat cheers guys and as always if
you enjoyed today's episode why not join
thousands of B2B legs enjoying our
unusual weekday emails for B2 marketing
tips SEO examples case studies and fresh
podcast updates head over to breaking
bb.com hit the newsletter Tab and with
that I want to thank you for tuning in
and we should catch you on the next one